Jelly Rose S. Bulaga
BSCPE 4A
Finals		

							Learnings in Troubleshooting									


		While working on computers every day we often come upon with several problems of various kind, that's why our subject Troubleshooting 	plays a big role. Determining computer problems by properly diagnosing is key to keep the system up and running.

	       Microsoft Windows is most friendly Operating System running onto our computers and reason why it gives more irritating problems, those need 	special attention to solve. Every Windows built-in with various troubleshooting utilities those can be helpful to narrow down causes of certain 	problems and ultimately solving it in efficient manner.
		
	       If we sum up all the problems, it would be very difficult to locate, but mostly as we witness Windows radically behave while using most 	common services like internet, data replication, audio/video or running third-party applications. Foremost, things in any situation is one should know what has to be done for successfully eradicating arisen problem. 

	       As what I've learned, before troubleshooting any problem of your personal computer, understand first about the type and intensity of problem that we will face is very important. If we focus at right direction and area, choosing right utility finally help solving certain problem in short span of time and in efficient manner. Although Windows equipped with all sort of tools, but still there are plenty of third-party utilities available those can be used effectively to resolve issues in due course.
	
		Every problem has a remedy, nothing can be stand still on same position all we have to do is review it, apply right method and solve it. Computers are more liable these days with more advancement, more it’s being used more it will be affected. There are generous amount of tools and utilities which are very essential and help narrow down the cause and at last removal of bad patch within PC. If we focus on Operating System any one can operate for either third-party tools or built-in ones to solve most common and often complex problems. Though it’s hard to limit types of problem but following are most common glitches and their respective PC utilities exists within Operating System.

		An example problem  is like an unable to boot PC , there often come a time when you try to boot your PC but it won’t get into the operation system main area called Desktop or even on login screen. It is very annoying and frustrating that leads to fresh installation in most cases by novices. But before taking big step like this better try some techniques those generally helps reinstate the PC into normal condition. There is a mechanism called Windows Safe Mode that actually help to locate the actual problem so that PC can be boot into Windows to further tuning up the associated problem. Recycle power of PC and hit F8 key several times to appear the Safe mode menu, then by using keyboard arrows keys hit enter onto Safe Mode. At the time of booting into safe mode any individual has an option to delete junk or problematic application those interfering normal PC boot process. In some cases PC also unable to boot into Safe Mode, in this situation try Windows repair option by pressing the same F8 key where right section would allow to do the tweaking. 
		
		Another example of a problem in the system is the death window or the blue screen of death, this is most annoying problem in the our computer where suddenly a blue screen with scrambled text appears and ended up restarting the PC. Now it’s totally new to anyone if they encounter with such problem first time. First and foremost thing one should do if they able to boot again, uncheck the restart after blue screen option so that popped up error can be scrutinize afterwards on internet or elsewhere. Still the actual reason of Blue screen can’t be determined but in latest edition of Windows it’s mostly due to drivers or hardware compatibility. In case of driver problems better try windows control panel to remove latest installed applications or drivers one by one. In case of hardware compatibility there can be either a damaged component in your sysyem.

		There were lot of system problems that we will soon encounter in our personal computers. Like what we have tackled in our troubleshooting subject with Engr. Max Perin, those many possible problems of our systems were discussed by our classmates and gave us lot of debugging or troubleshooting teachnique in order for us to have knowledge when terrible things happens in our beloved computers.
		
		Those two sample problems mentioned above, the unable to boot PC and the death window or the blue screen of death are the common problems that occurs in our system. That's why I keep it's troubleshooting teachnique or steps in debugging it when I will encounter again this problem in my system.
	
		Having  knowlegde in troubleshooting or fixing computer system is one of the best asset you can have, for you have already the knowledge you can now fix your own system and save your money instead of paying someone to fix your computer. This knowledge and experience in fixing computer problem can also be your source of income, you may have a sideline job in fixing computers of others and being paid from it, and the best thing is you can create your own business like computer repair shops so that it will be convenient for your costumers for they can easyly access you because you already have your own place in repairing thier systems.

		Big thanks to those who also shared thier knowledge to us because from them we learned and also for this subject troubleshooting for giving us the chance to study about the hardware part of the system its uses, functions and how to fix things up when it got damaged. As we worked on determining the problems in our computer or system, I also realize that we must be always patient in working in this kind of task. As every system we fixed or revived it gives a great happiness and accomplishment in our hearts. We  must continue doing what we love, and always be greatful in every learnings you gain.
